= oracle-enhanced-enhanced

While an outstanding offering that enables us to use Oracle as our database (whether we like it or not), the Oracle
Enhanced ActiveRecord Adapter (link[https://github.com/rsim/oracle-enhanced]) has a few behaviours that I find myself
overriding in all my Rails projects. Made sense to throw them all into a gem.

== How It Works

Add this gem to your project and it will override the following defaults:

* sequences will be created with the +start_value+ options: <tt>1 NOCACHE ORDER</tt>
* +cache_columns+ is set to +true+, saving loads in terms of data dictionary lookups (but requiring a restart if you change a table)
* primary/foreign key columns will be created as NUMBER(12) instead of NUMBER(38)
* integer columns will default to NUMBER(12) instead of NUMBER(38)
* +TEXT+ fields are stored as <tt>VARCHAR2(4000)</tt> instead of +CLOB+

=== Converting CLOB Columns to VARCHAR2

You can convert existing +CLOB+ columns to <tt>VARCHAR2(4000)</tt> in a migration using:

  class ConvertTextColumns < ActiveRecord::Migration
    def self.up
      convert_clob_to_varchar2 :table_name, :column_name
    end

    def self.down
      convert_varchar2_to_clob :table_name, :column_name
    end
  end

You can optionally specify the <tt>VARCHAR2</tt> size as a third parameter to <tt>convert_clob_to_varchar2</tt>.

=== Other Methods

You can at any time change the text representation by calling +set_text_storage_representation+. See the rdoc for more details.

There are also helper methods <tt>text_is_clob?</tt> and <tt>text_is_varchar2?</tt>, and a new constant <tt>VARCHAR2_MAX_LENGTH</tt>. Note
that these are added to <tt>ActiveRecord::ConnectionAdapters::OracleEnhancedAdapter</tt>.
==

== Known Issues

None

== Contributing
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Steve Lamotte. See LICENSE.txt for further details.
